hey guys welcome to my channel today I'm
gonna answer the question should I get
facebook blueprint certified and to be
honest most people should not but be
sure to watch the end of this video
where I provide a ton of clarity on what
kind of people are actually gonna
benefit from getting facebook blueprint
certified but before we dive into that
what is it
Facebook blueprint is a series of free
courses and certifications that's
provided by Facebook in order to access
the free trainings you can go to
Facebook blueprint calm and once you're
here you're gonna see several different
modules for getting started with
Facebook and Facebook ads be sure to
bookmark this page because like I said
Facebook blueprint courses are for free
so these are free resources provided by
Facebook that are able to teach you how
to run and manage your facebook ad
campaigns and in theory after taking
these courses you can also get certified
and these are not free the
certifications do cost money around $100
a pop / certification and the test that
you have to take to get these
certifications are pretty intense but
I'll get to that in a second so in order
to see what kind of Facebook blueprint
certifications you can get go ahead and
go to facebook.com slash business flash
learn slash certification so there are a
number of certifications you can take
for media buying and for developers all
ranging from like the associate level
also to a more professional level so I
also want to talk about a little bit of
my experience from getting Facebook
blueprint certified I got certified
earlier this year in January 2020 and
just to take the test it cost a hundred
dollars so there is no guarantee no
refunds if you don't pass so my process
for preparing for this exam was I
selected the exam I wanted to take and
then I also took the Associated practice
test with it and I highly recommend that
you do that because the questions that
you don't get right they're gonna guide
you to certain courses that you can take
in facebook blueprint to help you
prepare yourself for the exam and I did
get a few questions wrong in the
practice exam so I was able to take
those courses and brush myself up so
that I could at least answer it and the
way that Facebook wanted me to answer on
the certification exam this isn't on
lands and that Facebook does not mess
around they actually had me take a
webcam around the entire room that I was
taking the exam in so that they could
make sure that there were no papers
lying around the room no books also
you're gonna have to download us
cific software to take the exam and once
you're taking the exam on the software
you can't switch out of the software so
you can't like look at other pages on
the internet look at other notes they
will have complete access to your screen
the entire time you're taking the exam
and you're required to keep your webcam
on so that they can also see and hear
you during the exam even though I've
been using Facebook ads for like almost
5 years now I did practice for this exam
because to be honest the questions were
made to trip you up and to confuse you
so back to the original question do I
think people should get facebook
blueprints certified and like I said the
answer for most people is no the only
people who should be getting certified
our media buyers or people who want to
have media buying as a career path so
maybe people who own agencies or who are
freelancing and I really do not
recommend it for people who are trying
to learn Facebook ads because to be
honest the certification process and the
free courses did not teach me anything
strategic about running Facebook ads and
yes there were a few tactical bits that
were a little bit more colored-in for me
but ultimately it's not gonna teach you
how to make money from facebook ads it's
gonna teach you how to run Facebook ads
to an extent but yes if you are a media
buyer do consider getting facebook
blueprints certified I've noticed that a
lot of clients hold it in high regard
and sometimes even if they don't ask for
it I do tell them I have it and it is
just like that extra little boost and
then feeling more comfortable and
working with I kind of look at it like
getting your bachelor's degree it
doesn't show that you're smarter than
someone else who didn't go to college it
just shows that you committed doing the
work and now you have something to show
for it okay guys and that's it if you
have any more questions about getting
facebook blueprints certified be sure to
hit me up in the comments below all
right